Ladies and gentlemen, the gentleman sitting with me here, Senator John Carroll, who is
in the color of the month.
Mr. Carroll and I served together for many years and the council representatives now return
together in the Senate.
Senator Carroll was the first member of the Interior Committee.
And as a member of that committee, he is sitting where, joining in, the discussions of the
chairman of the committee, which I am sure, in consideration of the rapid-passed number
of decisions right off, especially private utilities, such as Senator Carroll.
Senator Carroll is the real expert on this stuff, and I'm going to ask him generally,
though he thinks about it as a different information on this very important and effective
matter.
On the center of the key form, well, of course, I do not profess to be an expert, but I indeed
privilege to have been called in to serve with you and to watch the distinguished senator
from Tennessee work on these witnesses.
I mean, he works on them.
He draws information out of them.
They try to hide it for them, and he is an expert in his field drawing information out
of these experts.
Then a privilege for me to be associated with you in this focus.
Well, thank you, John.
The rapid-passed right off is supposed to be an incentive to industry to build something
for a sense of localization purpose, which they would not otherwise build.
But we find that they are being granted these right off whether they need them or not,
whether they are permanent improvements, whether they are even only an offer.
That's the purpose.
Senator Carroll, I believe Mr. Secretary Optree said that this is cost of the federal government
and $3.5 billion of the state's budget rate.
$3.5 billion out of the treasury of the United States government?
Well, of course, we had to stop the gander against the EVA.
You had to decide that it's a scam that the health canyon was being built
without cost of the federal government.
What has developed in connection with health canyon is the best deal you've ever been.
I think if the people of Tennessee could really understand what has been happening,
they would be in revenge.
I think if I may, in a very brief period of time that we have here,
if I may sketch this.
Not long ago, the Idaho Power Company went before the federal power commission
to obtain a license to build from debt.
Great Colibor, national debt.
They won that price.
It was a very valuable benefit it was given to us.
We think that there was political manipulation in the granting of that license,
now what is the situation to take?
Not worth standing in the receipt of that great benefit.
They are now given the great tax rainfall of about $65 million.
Again, we contend that there's political manipulation.
And I want to say to you, Senator, that's the key forer that have not been for you,
that Senator Burd and other senators would have been misled
as to the importance of what has been going on.
For example, the Secretary of Interior Secretary Xi, rejected this proposal.
He recommended against this proposal,
but only Senator Xi forward was able to get his finger on the seat letter,
because we were led to believe that Xi can had approved.
And I commend you, Senator Xi, for the fine work that you've done.
Well, John, Senator Xi forward to pass on these power matters,
but he rejected it, but he has his rejections with overrule
and they granted him an article of Taracan's service as an outstanding.
But I think it ought to be pointed out also, didn't they,
article of Taracan for people's claims and states that it's not one cost of federal government,
one time and one time?
It's exactly what they said before the federal power commission.
If you just punish this crisis, it will not cost the people of the United States
one thing, actually it's going to cost us millions of dollars before we're too late.
Otherwise, they get the right office, that's what it's about.
It's about 50 years old, maybe.
Well, Senator Carol, this whole thing revolved around matters
whether they were rather the rat-effects right office, essentially, but not.
And hasn't the federal issue that they've been stranding them,
even though it's nothing to do much as they're doing,
anyway, still much, anyway.
No question about that.
Well, I certainly do thank you, Senator Carol,
and I sometimes feel kind of saddened with the rest of the discussion
as well as these little tellers.
That's all for now, and thanks for that.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee,
progress was made on the TBA Self-Financing Bill again this week.
In the House, the Public Works Committee reported the bill
sponsored by Representative Tucker Davis, Tennessee,
and supported by all of our Tennessee Valley Congress.
The bill now goes before the rules, Committee,
and I'm optimistic that this committee will give the TBA bill
its they on the floor of the House.
As you know, the Senate's public works committee has already reported
about two weeks ago the TBA Self-Financing Bill
with some necessary compromise.
And Senator Lyndon Johnson of Texas, the leader of the majority in the Senate,
included this bill in his list of examples of emergency legislation
that had to be passed in this session.
And he hopes the Senate will consider it right after the civil rights bill,
which is occupying all of the time the Senate has proposed on.
Under these conditions, I am again hopeful that we can enact a fair
and equitable means of financing the TBA facilities
before this session of Congress adjourned.
I need not tell you how important it is to do that.
You know, or you know that during the last four years,
we have had no appropriations for any new power and capacity
like steam plants or hydroelectric facilities for the TBA.
And just before coming into the studio,
I talked to Congressman Joe Evans of the Appropriations Committee,
and he said that no money for this purpose was included in the
Appropriation Bill for next year.
Well, this week the Senate, after voting,
to take off the civil rights bill,
continued searching the bait and analysis of this measure.
The Senate is proceeding on the same high level
that I spoke of last week on this program.
I think that the bait has been extremely good,
and has brought the light areas for clarification and change, or necessary.
One of these areas is the necessity of guaranteeing trial,
by jury and contempt cases, arising under this bill.
This has been a not illegal problem in connection with this legislation.
And this week after studying the matter of great deal,
I presented an amendment which I believe offers success solution
that's been intended yet.
My amendment makes the distinction between civil and criminal contempt actions.
The distinction actually is the purpose of the judge,
inciting a defendant for contempt.
What is his purpose?
If he is trying to put into effect,
if his decrees is on decrees of his court,
if so, then that action is civil and nature.
Is he trying to punish an offender for plotting his decrees?
If so, his action is criminal and nature.
Everyone agrees, I believe, that this trick judge
should have the authority to enforce his own decrees.
In doing so, a violator may be fined,
or it may be incarcerated,
but he's a violator who holds the key, so to speak, in his own hands.
As soon as he complies, he is released,
and he's purged of all contempt.
On the other hand, if the judge says that you have violated my order,
and I'm going to punish or put you in jail
if we find that you have violated it,
for some specified time,
then the purpose of the judge is punitive and nature,
and the defendant is certainly entitled
to a right to a trial by a jury of his views.
I think we've fought too long to the right
to a jury trial to give it up now.
And the second amendment that I filed
was the commission itself.
Under President Eisenhower's bill,
it is a presidential commission,
filled by appointment of the President
and reporting to the President.
And yet, all of the duties of the commission,
however, are legislated in nature.
But my amendment would make this a legislative commission,
for the vice President and Speaker of the House
each naming one member, and the majority,
and minority leaders of the Senate,
and House each naming one, or a total of six.
This issue, this general issue of civil rights,
has been a national political football too long.
I think it should be seven.
I do not think of either of these proposals
that I've spoken of as cover-man.
I present them because I believe they are right.
If we keep in mind what we are trying to do,
that is to assure every person a right to vote,
and try to work out a bill which will do that,
without giving away some of our other rights,
such as that of a filed by jury.
And I think we will have performed a good
and legitimate purpose.
Our own purpose will be to try to arrive
at an equitable settlement of this issue.
It has remained too long as a political football,
and has been too long a divisive issue among our people.
That's all for now, until next week,
this time. Goodbye and thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen,
friends of Tennessee,
during this week hearings began in the Senate
on the proposal to grant the Tennessee Valley authority
a means of financing its own necessary expansion.
For our region of the country,
there is no more important piece of legislation
pending in this context than this TVA self-financing bill.
It is a must for this session.
There are two basic bills being considered
by the Senate Public Works Subcommittee.
One is the so-called Curb Bill,
sponsored by Senator Robert S. Curve,
Oklahoma, the Subcommittee Chairman.
Senators Eastland, Senators,
Hill, Sparksman, and Gore,
and Senator Gore is the member of the Subcommittee.
And I have joined the Senator Curve
in the sponsorship of this bill.
The other is the Bill sponsored by Senator John Sherman Cooper
of Kentucky.
It seems obvious to me,
from the questions asked by the committee members,
on the day that Senator Hill's Sparksman Cooper
and I testified before the Public Works Subcommittee
this past week,
that there will be several issues which we must face both
in the Valley and in the nation,
in connection with working out this legislation.
First, perhaps, is the matter of area limitation.
The cup of bill has a rather well-defined area limitation.
That territory being served at a TVA
as a February of this year,
including its exchange of electricity agreements.
Senator Cooper explains that under his bill,
it would take an act of Congress
to make any extension of TVA service.
Under the bill which we sponsored,
there is no limitation other than that
defined in the basic TVA act,
which is the economical transmission distance
from the hydroelectric dam.
We prefer not to be any more specific in that.
TVA's long history shows that it is not a radar
of surrounding territory.
This problem is to get enough power
to serve its own region,
not try to expand into adjacent region.
But the near fact that it is not prohibited
from serving cooperatives or the municipalities
across the road,
is what has made the yardstick work so well
and effectively during the past year.
If you will look at a map,
you see that the amount of rates
extending around a TVA territory,
are higher, the further away you have got from the TVA.
First, by these companies,
have low rates and sell more electricity
and then make more money
than the private power companies
that great distance from the TVA.
Of course, the tendency itself is not effective
because it is all in the TVA area.
But out there, there will be a change
in this picture for surrounding states.
If we lay down a hard and fast boundary,
another issue will be the extent of treasury control.
Under our bill, the TVA board is definitely in control
and it may consult with the treasury
regarding the issuance of bonds.
Under the Cooper bill,
it must consult with the second care of the treasury
and the treasury has the right to halt the issuance of bonds
for not more than 90 days.
Finally, there is the amount of bonds issued
and their repayment.
Senator Cooper would limit the issuance to $750 million
without further congressional authorization.
We would not face a figure limitation in the bill
because since these are revenue bonds,
the amount with the effectively limited
of what the system can absorb.
And as for repayment, of course,
all of these bonds are going to have to be repaid by interest,
with interest.
But we think it's a mistake to require the amortization
of paying back of the original investment within 40 years
and to require payment of interest also,
which is what the Cooper bill can do.
This would, of course, make the electric rates higher in the valley
and it would tend to do away with the TVA yardstick,
which we don't want done.
It would be overly burdensome on the system.
And if a far heavier financial burden
and any private utility system is required to bear it,
generally speaking, I thought the numbers of the public
work subcommittee, even those who are not considered particularly friendly
to the TVA, showed a rather reasonable attitude
in trying to work out in good faith
to give us the privilege of financing our own necessary power expansion.
I'm hopeful for a reasonable bill out of the committee.
Much, of course, depends on just how antagonistic the budget bureau
and the administration proved to be.
Basic to all, and the big decision to be decided here,
is whether we are willing to trust the TVA board
located in the region and working with the people
to operate the TVA, or whether we will allow
Washington's and the Rockles' efforts its way into the driver's seat.
Thank you and good-bye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very remarkable world we're living in today.
It was recently announced that an Earth satellite
will be launched in Florida this fall or early next winter
as a part of our nation's participation
in the International Geophysical Year.
This object is an exact model of the sphere as it will be launched
by a three-stage rocket near the East Coast of Florida.
It is expected to attain an altitude of 300 miles above the Earth's surface
after being launched into its orbit
at a 35-degree inclination to the equator.
This sphere, when it enters orbit, will resemble a very faint star.
It will be visible to the naked eye, but only briefly in the twilight hour.
Inside this globe or sphere is a complete radio transmitter
capable of sending a wealth of scientific data
back to scientists who will receive and translate it.
One of the important projects in connection with this
is to determine the exact shape of the Earth.
This 20-inch sphere, which weighs 21 and a half pounds,
will be traveling at the rate of 18,000 miles per hour
and will go around the Earth once every hour and a half.
You will be hearing a whole lot about this project in the months to come,
so I'm glad to have the opportunity of showing you exact models
or exact spheres, which will be a part of this performance and demonstration.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee,
these parchment papers are a facsimile of the Constitution.
Just as it was written by the Committee on Style in the Constitutional Convention,
in Article 2, Section 1 of this document are these words,
filling vacancy in the office of the President,
in case of a removal of the President from office or of his death,
resignation or inability to discharge the powers and duties of the Set Office,
the same shall devolve on the Vice President.
Around this phrase, and what it says and what it does not say,
will revolve a new and fascinating constitutional debate.
As chairman of the Constitutional Revision Subcommittee,
I shall have to play a role in this study.
Therefore, I should like to discuss it with you today.
You will note that these words leave some highly important questions on answer.
In the case of the death or resignation of the President, there is no question.
But who is to determine inability to discharge the powers and duties of office?
What if the inability is only temporary?
How can the presidential powers be surrendered temporarily and then re-assume?
These questions have been extremely pertinent three times in the history of our nation.
This is a picture of James Garfield, the 20th President of the United States.
A similar phrase assassin shot President Garfield on July 21, 1881.
He laid desperately ill much of the time in coma until his death in September on September 19 of that year.
During Garfield's illness, the public business was neglected and our foreign relations took a turn for the works.
But the nation safe then behind its ocean struttle fruit.
At one time, the cabinet decided the thing to do would be to make vice president author,
acting president. But they decided against this because they feared that after Garfield's hope for recovery,
there would be no way for him to legally re-assume the office.
Here now is a picture of Woodrow Wilson, the 27th President of the United States.
In the late summer of 1919, President Wilson already warned down by the battle for the League of Nations,
decided to take his issues with the people.
Gradually, he set out on a punishing nationwide speaking tool.
In the early morning hours of September 26, his body less strong than his will broke down.
He suffered a paralyzing stroke. Wilson eventually recovered, but for months,
he laid two ills to perform any duties. He did not meet part with his cabinet for eight months.
While he lay helpless the Senate through the actions of the famous little band of willful men,
he killed the United States entry into the League of Nations.
We can only speculate that if there had been a method of carrying on the executive duties of the government,
the League might have been ratified.
We can only speculate that with the United States in the League of Nations,
it might have been strong enough to avert World War II.
All of us remember vividly the last time that this problem arose
when President Eisenhower was stricken with a heart attack and lay helpless for several weeks.
We are all grateful as the prayers of the people of the nation were answered,
and he recovered to resume his duties.
And we are glad that he has taken the lead in frankly facing this very important problem.
Several suggestions have been made for solving this problem.
One is that the cabinet should be empowered to make these determinations.
This has been criticized on the grounds that they are interested parties.
They all owe their appointment to the President and might not continue in office under a new president.
Another is that the Supreme Court are a combination of the cabinet and the chief judge make these determinations.
This too has been criticized on the ground that it involved the judiciary,
a separate branch of government where it should not be involved.
It has been suggested that Congress, which has the impeachment power,
should also have this power.
Perhaps by a two-thirds vote should Congress prepare the test and disable,
and then by a majority vote should he recover,
declaring him able to resume his power.
It is a vitally important question,
one on which the fate of this nation could someday turn.
Now, this is a picture of signing of the Constitution.
These men didn't leave many questions unanswered.
It may be up to us to supply the answer to one of these questions that they did leave unanswered.
I hope that you too will be given giving this your thought,
and that you will let me know what you think about the various proposals that have been made.
Thank you, and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee,
I try on these programs to bring before you and to have as our guest some of the leading people in the nation
and in the United States Senate from time to time,
and also to try to keep our programs on a nonpartisan basis,
bringing in some democratic senators and leaders,
and also some of our outstanding Republican leaders.
On the program last week, we had this thing with Senator from Alabama,
Senator Spartman, who gave us some news.
And today we have one of the great and outstanding men in the United States Senate,
who is highly respected, whether you agree with him or not, his word is always his bond,
and he is highly thought of by not only Republican senators,
but by democratic senators as well.
I don't think that I need to call our friends name.
You've all seen him on television.
I find outstanding men, but in case any of you do not know who our guest is,
the senator will give no one a telephone you,
the leader of the Republicans in the United States Senate.
We certainly are glad to have you on this program bill.
Well, I'm certainly glad to be on the program with you, Estus, and do,
meet with our very fine people of Tennessee.
I've had the privilege of being in your state on a number of occasions
and hope to get back again before too long.
I know you have, and we always welcome you, and we want you there.
Now, of course, the logical question to ask Senator Novan would be,
Senator Novan is not running for re-election to the United States Senate in 1958.
He is retiring from the Senate.
I'm not going to let you say what your future plans are.
I know you wouldn't tell me anyway, but I do want you to know, ladies and gentlemen,
that you'll probably be seeing and hearing about Senator Novan in half places in public life
for many, many years to come.
But now, Senator Novan, one of the most important matters we have in Tennessee
and in the Tennessee Valley is trying to have a satisfactory self-financing program
whereby by the TVA, you can get sufficient money to continue its operations
and to build necessary steam plants or hydroelectric facilities to serve people of the valley.
I remember when you first came to the Senate on your own,
you went down and saw the TVA and came back, and you've always spoken well of the TVA.
What is your feeling about a program at this time and about TVA?
Senator, I have been, of course, very favorably impressed with the developments that took place
in the Greek Tennessee Valley area.
I've always gone on the belief that what benefits one section of our country benefits
in the entire nation, I certainly want to see adequate financing provided
so that the growth and development of the Greek Valley of the Tennessee and the service area there
may move ahead, then that they will have adequate power resources to take care of the growing economy.
Now, just what the details should properly be, I'm not prepared to say at this time,
but certainly nothing you should pull back the growth and development of the economy of your great area.
Well, I was a very encouraging word, and I know that you mean everywhere you say it, Bill,
and we do appreciate your help in labeling us to try to get some system whereby we can continue to have the TVA as a great agency.
I wish we could go on here for a long time, but you're a member of the Foreign Relations Committee
and very interested in foreign affairs.
The situation in the Middle East is troublesome to all of us.
Do you have any late news or ideas you can tell us about it?
Of course, the developments in the last few days brought news that the American Six Fleet was moving from France
over into the adjacent waters to the mid-eens.
Currently, have been efforts on the part of the Egyptian radios and some of the communist-dominated propaganda agencies
to stir up trouble in Jordan.
It appears to be very serious at the present time.
We hope that it will not lead, however, to any outbreak of hostilities in that part of the world.
Bill, on behalf of the viewers of this station, I want to thank you very much for being on the program with me.
We will be looking forward to your down-end development here in the state because we know that you are our friend and we are friends of yours.
I'm very happy to have been here with you.
Thank you very much.
.